README.md, before:

# CarND-Controls-PID
Self-Driving Car Engineer Nanodegree Program

---

## Dependencies

* cmake >= 3.5
 * All OSes: [click here for installation instructions](https://cmake.org/install/)
* make >= 4.1
  * Linux: make is installed by default on most Linux distros
  * Mac: [install Xcode command line tools to get make](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/)
  * Windows: [Click here for installation instructions](http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/make.htm)
* gcc/g++ >= 5.4
  * Linux: gcc / g++ is installed by default on most Linux distros
  * Mac: same deal as make - [install Xcode command line tools]((https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/)
  * Windows: recommend using [MinGW](http://www.mingw.org/)
* [uWebSockets](https://github.com/uWebSockets/uWebSockets) == 0.13, but the master branch will probably work just fine
  * Follow the instructions in the [uWebSockets README](https://github.com/uWebSockets/uWebSockets/blob/master/README.md) to get setup for your platform. You can download the zip of the appropriate version from the [releases page](https://github.com/uWebSockets/uWebSockets/releases). Here's a link to the [v0.13 zip](https://github.com/uWebSockets/uWebSockets/archive/v0.13.0.zip).
  * If you run OSX and have homebrew installed you can just run the ./install-mac.sh script to install this
* Simulator. You can download these from the [project intro page](https://github.com/udacity/CarND-PID-Control-Project/releases) in the classroom.

## Basic Build Instructions

1. Clone this repo.
2. Make a build directory: `mkdir build && cd build`
3. Compile: `cmake .. && make`
4. Run it: `./pid`. 

## Editor Settings

We've purposefully kept editor configuration files out of this repo in order to
keep it as simple and environment agnostic as possible. However, we recommend
using the following settings:

* indent using spaces
* set tab width to 2 spaces (keeps the matrices in source code aligned)

## Code Style

Please (do your best to) stick to [Google's C++ style guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html).

## Project Instructions and Rubric

Note: regardless of the changes you make, your project must be buildable using
cmake and make!

More information is only accessible by people who are already enrolled in Term 2
of CarND. If you are enrolled, see [the project page](https://classroom.udacity.com/nanodegrees/nd013/parts/40f38239-66b6-46ec-ae68-03afd8a601c8/modules/f1820894-8322-4bb3-81aa-b26b3c6dcbaf/lessons/e8235395-22dd-4b87-88e0-d108c5e5bbf4/concepts/6a4d8d42-6a04-4aa6-b284-1697c0fd6562)
for instructions and the project rubric.

## Hints!

* You don't have to follow this directory structure, but if you do, your work
  will span all of the .cpp files here. Keep an eye out for TODOs.

## Call for IDE Profiles Pull Requests

Help your fellow students!

We decided to create Makefiles with cmake to keep this project as platform
agnostic as possible. Similarly, we omitted IDE profiles in order to we ensure
that students don't feel pressured to use one IDE or another.

However! I'd love to help people get up and running with their IDEs of choice.
If you've created a profile for an IDE that you think other students would
appreciate, we'd love to have you add the requisite profile files and
instructions to ide_profiles/. For example if you wanted to add a VS Code
profile, you'd add:

* /ide_profiles/vscode/.vscode
* /ide_profiles/vscode/README.md

The README should explain what the profile does, how to take advantage of it,
and how to install it.

Frankly, I've never been involved in a project with multiple IDE profiles
before. I believe the best way to handle this would be to keep them out of the
repo root to avoid clutter. My expectation is that most profiles will include
instructions to copy files to a new location to get picked up by the IDE, but
that's just a guess.

One last note here: regardless of the IDE used, every submitted project must
still be compilable with cmake and make./

Commit message:

added student reflection in readme

README.md, after:

# CarND-Controls-PID
Self-Driving Car Engineer Nanodegree Program

---

## Student Reflection

Generally per my reading, I understood the proportional component to create a more sensitive controller, the derivative component to reduce overshoot, and the intergral component to reduce steady state errors that occur in PD control.

Based on this understanding, I manually tune the controller's Kp, Ki, and Kd constants.

1. First I made Kp high enough to where the controller seemed responsive enough to make the turns.
2. Then raised Kd until it stopped overshooting and approached the set point in a more controlled way.
3. At this point I was getting around the track, but for some of the tougher turns, my controller wasn’t responsive enough, so I raised Kp some more.
4. I left Ki = 0. I think  because the car already starts pretty close to the set point, a small steady state error is negligible in the final performance, and therefore an integral factor was not critical.

The final values were Kp, Ki, Kd = 0.2, 0.0, 3.0

(Note: I had attempted several automated twiddle approaches using different ideas for error. I am running into some threading issues with too many websockets messages coming in and causing me to run twiddle multiple times, so I decided to save that for a future improvement. I then switched to the manual tuning approach described above, based on my understanding of how each of the three components contribute to the controller.)

---

## Dependencies

* cmake >= 3.5
 * All OSes: [click here for installation instructions](https://cmake.org/install/)
* make >= 4.1
  * Linux: make is installed by default on most Linux distros
  * Mac: [install Xcode command line tools to get make](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/)
  * Windows: [Click here for installation instructions](http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/make.htm)
* gcc/g++ >= 5.4
  * Linux: gcc / g++ is installed by default on most Linux distros
  * Mac: same deal as make - [install Xcode command line tools]((https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/)
  * Windows: recommend using [MinGW](http://www.mingw.org/)
* [uWebSockets](https://github.com/uWebSockets/uWebSockets) == 0.13, but the master branch will probably work just fine
  * Follow the instructions in the [uWebSockets README](https://github.com/uWebSockets/uWebSockets/blob/master/README.md) to get setup for your platform. You can download the zip of the appropriate version from the [releases page](https://github.com/uWebSockets/uWebSockets/releases). Here's a link to the [v0.13 zip](https://github.com/uWebSockets/uWebSockets/archive/v0.13.0.zip).
  * If you run OSX and have homebrew installed you can just run the ./install-mac.sh script to install this
* Simulator. You can download these from the [project intro page](https://github.com/udacity/CarND-PID-Control-Project/releases) in the classroom.

## Basic Build Instructions

1. Clone this repo.
2. Make a build directory: `mkdir build && cd build`
3. Compile: `cmake .. && make`
4. Run it: `./pid`. 

## Editor Settings

We've purposefully kept editor configuration files out of this repo in order to
keep it as simple and environment agnostic as possible. However, we recommend
using the following settings:

* indent using spaces
* set tab width to 2 spaces (keeps the matrices in source code aligned)

## Code Style

Please (do your best to) stick to [Google's C++ style guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html).

## Project Instructions and Rubric

Note: regardless of the changes you make, your project must be buildable using
cmake and make!

More information is only accessible by people who are already enrolled in Term 2
of CarND. If you are enrolled, see [the project page](https://classroom.udacity.com/nanodegrees/nd013/parts/40f38239-66b6-46ec-ae68-03afd8a601c8/modules/f1820894-8322-4bb3-81aa-b26b3c6dcbaf/lessons/e8235395-22dd-4b87-88e0-d108c5e5bbf4/concepts/6a4d8d42-6a04-4aa6-b284-1697c0fd6562)
for instructions and the project rubric.

## Hints!

* You don't have to follow this directory structure, but if you do, your work
  will span all of the .cpp files here. Keep an eye out for TODOs.

## Call for IDE Profiles Pull Requests

Help your fellow students!

We decided to create Makefiles with cmake to keep this project as platform
agnostic as possible. Similarly, we omitted IDE profiles in order to we ensure
that students don't feel pressured to use one IDE or another.

However! I'd love to help people get up and running with their IDEs of choice.
If you've created a profile for an IDE that you think other students would
appreciate, we'd love to have you add the requisite profile files and
instructions to ide_profiles/. For example if you wanted to add a VS Code
profile, you'd add:

* /ide_profiles/vscode/.vscode
* /ide_profiles/vscode/README.md

The README should explain what the profile does, how to take advantage of it,
and how to install it.

Frankly, I've never been involved in a project with multiple IDE profiles
before. I believe the best way to handle this would be to keep them out of the
repo root to avoid clutter. My expectation is that most profiles will include
instructions to copy files to a new location to get picked up by the IDE, but
that's just a guess.

One last note here: regardless of the IDE used, every submitted project must
still be compilable with cmake and make./
